Meeting with an advisor today, I was challenged to identify the key facets of my dissertation, and why I believe them to be relevant. My overarching interest is the governance of data, with a particular focus on decentralized governance of data generated by the Internet of Things - connected sensors. I suspect that the emergence of this network of connected devices, along with the realtime information they capture about the world and the state of the networks we have set up within it (both physical and informational networks), offer an unprecedented opportunity to both find efficiency (commercial incentive) and identify actors behaving maliciously, or simply unaware of the negative social and environmental impacts of their actions. However, data → information → knowledge → informed action is a long and difficult chain to link together. I am interested in how we might link it to realize these gains lying latent.
Of course, this is an enormous challenge, and extends beyond the scope of what is possible in a single masters dissertation. My advisor's suggestion was to identify key steps to understanding such a system, and choose the highest impact (or most interesting) one to focus on for these next few months. These steps are:
Technical mechanism. 

Is a secure decentralized data management system possible? How can devices share data in the context of decentralization? 
I have not yet filled in the details here, but my approach will be to explore how access control to connected sensor data can be managed. I will propose a DAO (or constellation of DAOs- Aragon, colony, DAOstack, etc.) to govern these access controls, reliant on:
Self-sovereign identities, including machine autonomy - i.e. private keys unique and private to the edge device. This relies on trusted hardware technology, which enables devices to sign transactions - vote / submit data to DAOs, and hold funds etc, and decrypt data only accessible to it. Sovrin.
Adherence to standardized data protocols, enabling interoperability of data captured by devices manufactured and managed by different firms / entities. This is crucial to unlocking the value of the data being captured, but questions remain around incentivizing participants to adhere to such a protocol, and to share their data. xxx _ Ocean.
Proxy re-encryption technology, to enable secure data distribution in the context of a resource-limited edge device, i.e. one that cannot re-encrypt data for each validated requestor - possibly homomorphic cryptography for highly sensitive data. NuCypher.
Dynamic proof of location, for reliable and unspoofable localization services. This is not a need-to-have at this point, as GPS is reliable enough, but to move towards the antifragile system we need to construct this will be necessary. FOAM. 
Compliance with existing legal structures and regimes. Mattereum.
As for why this requires a DAO, this will be explored throughout the research effort. The sense I get is that centralized authorities are corruptible, but also often become entrenched holders of power, and not adaptive enough to respond to the changes the world is experiencing, and will continue to witness. I acknowledge that this is tenuous, and I am not providing evidence - the research will examine this, and try to understand the strengths and weaknesses of centralized and decentralized approaches, as well as considerations to take for the likely reality, which is a hybrid of both. 
2. Incentivization
Why will players participate? What are the players (and classes of players), and what is unique about each? 
Broadly, a few thoughts come to mind - commercial / corporate actors controlling deployed networks of sensors (think Maersk with shipping containers or Airbus with planes), private individuals controlling their own sensors (think theoretically my iPhone or Fitbit, Nest etc) and government actors (TSA airport scanners, surveillance devices like cameras in subway systems, etc). Each of these actors have different mandates and motivations, as well as different rights to data capture, usage and transmission. Understanding these motivations and inspiring behavior change - through economic, moral or other incentivization - will require deep understanding of the landscape and


 Clearly such a system would need to comply with jurisdictional law - and as many of these devices are mobile, even laws of different, distinct jurisdictions - so this is no small task. 


Where will DAOs emerge? I contend, not in competition with corporations, which havee a few centuries of organizational evolution and - more importantly - legal entrenchment on their side. Rather DAOs will first thrive in the spaces unaddressed by traditional organizations (firms and government organizations). Markets unaddressed due to lack of profitability for firms with high marginal (?) costs. 
A DAO for surveillance and intelligence services.
Realtime. IoT.
